Hello everybody and welcome back.
In this lecture I'd like to first of all show you about some other asset naming conventions it dawned
upon me after changing our static meshes to actually having the S M prefix on them that we hadn't touched
on materials or textures so we should probably do that at the same time.
Now I'm currently looking at the wacky Unreal engine and you can see here it's temporary disabled they
are working on a new wicked brilliant.
But for the moment this link up here it will be over in your lecture resources as well.
It will give us an idea of what we need to do now.
These are guidelines.
You don't have to stick to them but doing so means that your work is going to be more compatible with
other peoples and especially as a beginner.
It helps you solidify naming conventions later on of course you can change how you name things according
to your own workflow.
So one of the biggest things here is we start scroll down asset names.
Here we go prefix asset name its number and these suffix that it has.
And here we come to the first part of it.
So prefixes they are optional because of filters in the content browser so we look at some real and
look at the content browser.
Let's go into our materials and textures.
We can really see what things are but we can go to our filters as well and come into materials and textures
and only look at material instances.
If we wanted to we can actually go in and also add additional filters that we want to talk it targets
toggle on and off.
So we go back to our materials and textures and turn on texture as well.
We can talk all these on and off in order to filter our view.
That's why they're optional.
I will go through these and challenge you as well to make sure that things are named appropriately anyway.
Then further down we've got different types.
Here we go and once again this is entirely up to you Will you follow this as naming scheme.
But it does help you work out and organize your structure which is incredibly useful T for textures
you could have an image in there that isn't actually a texture.
It might be something else.
Actually labelling texture is incredibly useful.
You may find sprites for instance this is a good example or a sprite sheet.
They also would be a texture.
Technically they will be an image.
However differentiating them is going to be incredibly useful suffixes for the type of texture.
All we've got at the moment is what's known as the base colour.
So when we have a look back over here we've got this door.
Well in order to name it appropriately we put the T in front of it and at the end we'll call it the
base colour and there we go.
That's now got the appropriate name on its materials so this brass material here would have an m an
underscore and then let's say the door frame and material which is a material instance in this particular
case would be m I underscored Daw underscore frame underscore material or we could just leave it as
a door frame for instance it wouldn't necessarily have to have door material if it doesn't make much
sense to call it a material when it's implied because it is a material to begin with.
Now I've seen plenty of projects that have had materials and material instances both be called materials
because essentially that's what they are.
But there is a differentiation between having your materials and your material instances you start playing
around with materials you know that you're likely to be affecting more than one thing in your scene.
The same with textures.
I mean this texture here is base colour for our door is being used on the ceiling as well.
So actually doors not a great name for it.
I'm gonna leave it like that at the moment I'm just I don't want a name rename things for naming sake
and in fact the name I gave the material that I first used it on is probably a better name.
This metal would say I'm going to call it that.
Now the other thing to bear in mind here and much like every renaming that I have done so far is it's
worth bearing in mind that this is taking it further and further from whatever the source materials
name actually was.
So at this point unless it's visually distinct enough that I can recognise sets I've got no hope in
finding the source material for this anymore.
Okay.
So what I'd like kids to do as a challenge for this lecture is just go through your materials sort out
their naming as if they were a material.
Call them M underscore material the material instance am I before them the.
And we've only got one of a base colour I think to sort out and that can go in there as well and take
a good look at this list.
It's not going to be used in anger at the moment it's something you can build up upon and start to use
as you develop your skills in Unreal.
One of the things about naming is it just means that you can find things much more easily than you would
otherwise.
Now these suffixes here with the textures they are important because otherwise you're just going to
have all of your textures dumped in together you can search for displacement textures or normal textures
if you've got these on the end.
If you don't have these everything's just going to come up in one big lump.
Okay suppose video now and go through and rename your textures and materials Okay everybody Welcome
back.
Let's go over into unreal and just finish off of our naming.
So we've got a material instance here that is our ceiling.
Now fortunately it won't allow you to put spaces in.
And then we've got our stone material just here.
Now I'm just going to leave a stone slab something like that.
So is a material on material instance I can tell it because of the color.
I'm going to call that block work for the moment and of course feel free to rename things and change
things out as you go stone floor.
Well that's just a material instance.
It just needs the M.R.I. prefix.
Here we go.
Are stone here.
So we've got a texture which we can filter by any way.
And then it is a base color.
Okay.
Anything else to rename in here.
Our wall.
I'm going to leave that just as I am I would have I named everything here.
Looks good to me let's go.
Upper level models ascend doors and doorframe.
Okay so everything's looking as it should do.
So how are you guys getting on with this now.
I know at this moment in time it feels more like busy work than useful but being able to solidify the
skill of making sure your naming things appropriately from the beginning and slap on the wrist.
I totally forgot this as I was playing with the materials earlier.
So it's been sat there for a while and then I looked at it and realized I know we we had done these
models here.
We haven't even touched the rest of the materials.
Now this is just the starting point for you.
It's just really useful getting into the habit of doing nice and early so that's it for this lecture
and I'll see you all in the next one.